{:title "SCIP Chapter 1 Section 2"
 :layout :post
 :tags ["lisp" "SICP"]}

There is something special about drawing what you are learning/discussing, whether that is on a whiteboard or a notebook.  I'm already mad scrambling notes as I read, and I'm becoming sad that I'm reading this online vs. printed paper.

## Linear Recursion vs Iteration aka procedure shape

I share a room with two other programmers and as I was using one as my rubber duck to work through a problem he talked about data having a shape.  This is what I was trying to say but I didn't realize it at the time.  Exercise 1.9 has you draw out two functions that do the same thing, one uses Linear Recursion and the other is an iterative process.

Each does the same thing, each does it pretty much the same way.  But drawing out how its accomplished really drives home how the functions are 'shaped'.  This is a powerful thing.

```
(define (+ a b)
  (if (= a 0)
      b
      (inc (+ (dec a) b))))

(define (+ a b)
  (if (= a 0)
      b
      (+ (dec a) (inc b))))
```

Given `(+ 4 5)` draw them out.

The first yields:
```
(+ 4 5)
(inc (+ (dec 4) 5))
(inc (+ 3 5))
(inc (inc (+ (dec 3) 5)))
(inc (inc (+ 2 5)))
(inc (inc (inc (+ (dec 2) 5))))
(inc (inc (inc (+ 1 5))))
(inc (inc (inc (inc (+ (dec 1) 5)))))
(inc (inc (inc (inc (+ 0 5)))))
(inc (inc (inc (inc 5))))
(inc (inc (inc 6)))
(inc (inc 7))
(inc 8)
;; /=> 9
```

The second yields:
```
(+ 4 5)
(+ (dec 4) (inc 5))
(+ 3 6)
(+ (dec 3) (inc 6))
(+ 2 7)
(+ (dec 2) (inc 7))
(+ 1 8)
(+ (dec 1) (inc 8))
(+ 0 9)
;; /=> 9
```

In the video lectures he doesn't draw the intermediate steps `(+ (dec 4) (inc 5))` he would just move to its result, `(+ 4 5)`  However I found for me it made more sense to include them.

Both are constant for time, ie time grows at the same rate as the input.
But the recursive procedure also grows in space at the same rate as the input where as the iterative procedure always uses the same space.

```
Iterative => time = O(n), space = O(1);
Recursive => time = O(n), space = O(n);
```

Exercise 1.11 has you build a simple procedure that is iterative and one that uses recursion.

`f(n) = n if n<3 and f(n) = f(n - 1) + 2f(n - 2) + 3f(n - 3) if n> 3`

Recursion
```
(define (f n)
  (if (< n 3)
      n
      (+ (f (- n 1))
         (* 2 (f (- n 2)))
         (* 3 (f (- n 3))))))

(f 2)
;; /=> 2
(f 5)
;; /=> 25
(f 7)
;; /=> 142
```

Iterative
```
(define (f n)
  (f-iter 0 1 2 n))

(define (f-iter a b c n)
  (if (= n 0)
      a
      (f-iter b c (+ c (* 2 b) (* 3 a)) (- n 1))))
```

I'm not going to put all of my answers here or goes though each section but I just wanted to point out that doing these exercises is important.  It is very easy to think that these problems are simple and that you understand, but every time I sit down to do some I realize its a bit more difficult than I thought.  For example I found the recursive procedure pretty simple to write, the iterative one however took me a bit to get, ie I had to look at other examples.

The book speaks specifically about how recursive functions may be easier to write but they tend to not be as efficient.  The iterative functions are also able to operate at any point, ie no hidden state held by the interpreter.

I have also found that if I feel like I can't figure something out, watching the lectures on YouTube helps a lot.

Now I'm off to try 1.12, writing a recursive function to compute Pascal's triangles.
