{:title "Week Five of The Iron Yard"
 :layout :post
 :tags ["TiY"]}

# ajax | IIFE | Prototypes | Ruby

Week Five.

We had our first drop this week.  I hope its not the start of a new trend.


## IIFE - Immediately Invoked Function Expression
JavaScript lacks a native module/import system and is okay with polluting the global name space.  IIFE is a technique that allows us to get some of the benefits of a module system and helps us keep state private.  By wrapping your function in a closure you get to lock your private state/properties/methods away and control how you affect the larger scope of your environment.

For me learning about this was wonderful.  It helped to cement what closures, scopes, and environments really are and how you can abuse them to create some clever answers to a few problems that JavaScript creates.

## Prototypes
I don't have much to say about prototypes.  Prototypes are how JavaScript handles inheritance and so far they seem fairly straight forward.  However I'm sure that is inexperience talking.  Much of what I've read online points to people not having an understanding of how prototypes work.  They can be overwritten, they don't exists on the object itself but the object has access to it because its on the object's prototype object and it walks backwards down the chain until it finds it or it fails to find it on the root object.

## Ruby
We had a guest lecture from the Ruby on Rails instructor, to say it was great would be an understatement.  He live coded a hangman game, showed off some of Ruby's built ins and covered the basics of http routes and some general back-end stuff.  I was particularly struck by some of the nice built in methods that Ruby has.  It has started to really make me think about the differences between the 'batteries included' languages/runtimes like Python, Ruby and C# and the more bring it in as needed/we love libraries languages like JavaScript, Golang, and C.


I only have some passing familiarity with the above languages but I think its interesting as this appears to be a common dynamic that I've noticed in my research.  Some people love having everything built in, and others want to build it themselves or bring want to bring it in only when needed.  I can see the appeal of both camps, but I'm leaning towards the bring it in only if needed.

## Final Project
As we are nearing the halfway point, week six, I need to start narrowing down my final project ideas.
